[All hosts] Debugging: Fix steps for debugging without yo office (#4378)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/testing/debug-desktop-using-edge-chromium.md

---

> title: Debug add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Debug Office Add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)
```
For SEO

description: Learn how to debug Office Add-ins that use Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based) in VS Code.
ms.date: 01/26/2024
ms.localizationpriority: high
---

> # Debug add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Debug Office Add-ins on Windows using Visual Studio Code and Microsoft Edge WebView2 (Chromium-based)
```

- [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)
- [Node.js (version 10+)](https://nodejs.org/)
- Windows 10, 11
- A combination of platform and Office application that supports Microsoft Edge with WebView2 (Chromium-based) as explained in [Browsers and webview controls used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). If your version of Office from a Microsoft 365 subscription is earlier than Version 2101, you'll need to install WebView2. For instructions to install WebView2, see [Microsoft Edge WebView2 / Embed web content ... with Microsoft Edge WebView2](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/).

## Debug a project created with Yo Office

These instructions assume you have experience using the command line, understand basic JavaScript, and have created an Office Add-in project before using the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](../develop/yeoman-generator-overview.md). If you haven't done this before, consider visiting one of our tutorials, such as the [Excel Office Add-in tutorial](../tutorials/excel-tutorial.md).

1. The first step depends on the project and how it was created.

>    - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](../develop/yeoman-generator-overview.md). To do this, use any of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quick start](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md).

Reviewer 2: A suggestion to consider that avoids two sentences in a row with the pattern "X, use Y".
```suggestion
   - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](../develop/yeoman-generator-overview.md). Follow any of the yo office quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quick start](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md).
```

- Windows 10, 11

> - A combination of platform and Office application that supports Microsoft Edge with WebView2 (Chromium-based) as explained in [Browsers and webview controls used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). If your version of Office from a Microsoft 365 subscription is earlier than Version 2101, you will need to install WebView2. Use the instructions for installing it at [Microsoft Edge WebView2 / Embed web content ... with Microsoft Edge WebView2](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A combination of platform and Office application that supports Microsoft Edge with WebView2 (Chromium-based) as explained in [Browsers and webview controls used by Office Add-ins](../concepts/browsers-used-by-office-web-add-ins.md). If your version of Office from a Microsoft 365 subscription is earlier than Version 2101, you'll need to install WebView2. For instructions to install WebView2, see [Microsoft Edge WebView2 / Embed web content ... with Microsoft Edge WebView2](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-edge/webview2/).
```

>    - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](../develop/yeoman-generator-overview.md). Use any one of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quick start](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md), in order to do this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - If you want to create a project to experiment with debugging in Visual Studio Code, use the [Yeoman generator for Office Add-ins](../develop/yeoman-generator-overview.md). To do this, use any of our quick start guides, such as the [Outlook add-in quick start](../quickstarts/outlook-quickstart.md).
```

   - If you want to debug an existing project that was created with Yo Office, skip to the next step.

>    - If you want to debug an existing project that was not created with Yo Office, complete the procedure in the [Debug a project not created with yo office](#debug-a-project-not-created-with-yo-office) and then return to the next step of this procedure.

Reviewer 2: The text before the numbered steps mentions a yo office project as a prerequisite. Seems confusing to have the instructions about what to do if that isn't the case embedded later.

Author: I removed this step and modified the titles to indicate there are 2 sections (yo office, and non-yo office)

   - If you want to debug an existing project that was not created with Yo Office, complete the procedure in the [Debug a project not created with yo office](#debug-a-project-not-created-with-yo-office) and then return to the next step of this procedure.

1. Open VS Code and open your project in it.

1. Choose  **View** > **Run** or enter **Ctrl+Shift+D** to switch to debug view.
1. Choose **View** > **Run** or enter **Ctrl+Shift+D** to switch to debug view.

1. From the **RUN AND DEBUG** options, choose the Edge Chromium option for your host application, such as **Outlook Desktop (Edge Chromium)**. Select **F5** or choose **Run** > **Start Debugging** from the menu to begin debugging. This action automatically launches a local server in a Node window to host your add-in and then automatically opens the host application, such as Excel or Word. This may take several seconds.

   > [!TIP]
   > If you aren't using a project created with Yo Office, you may be prompted to adjust a registry key. While in the root folder of your project, run the following in the command line.
   >

>    > ``` command&nbsp;line

Reviewer 2: Do we no longer have to write command line this way? When did that change?

Author: Hmmm, not sure.

Reviewer 2: If it renders fine, great! Maybe double check after this gets merged. If all is well, we should change that everywhere.

> 

Reviewer 2: There's still a reference to Appendix B in the next section. Seems like maybe that whole important note could be removed now?

Author: Restored Appendix B (didn't realize it was for this error scenario).

         "port": 9229,
         "timeout": 600000,
         "webRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
         "preLaunchTask": "Debug: Excel Desktop"
       }
     ]
     // Other properties may be here.
   }
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you already have a `launch.json` file, just add the single configuration to the `configurations` section.

1. Replace the placeholder `$HOST$` with the name of the Office application that the add-in runs in. For example, `Outlook` or `Word`.
1. Save and close the file.

### Configure tasks.json

1. Create a file named `tasks.json` in the `\.vscode` folder of the project.
1. Copy the following JSON into the file. It contains a task that starts debugging for your add-in.

   ```json
   {
     "version": "2.0.0",
     "tasks": [
       {
         "label": "Debug: $HOST$ Desktop",
         "type": "shell",
         "command": "npm",
         "args": ["run", "start:desktop", "--", "--app", "$HOST$"],
         "presentation": {
           "clear": true,
           "panel": "dedicated"
         },
         "problemMatcher": []
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you already have a `tasks.json` file, just add the single task to the `tasks` section.

> 1. Replace both instances of the placeholder `$HOST$` with the name of the Office application that the add-in runs in; for example, `Outlook` or `Word`.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Replace both instances of the placeholder `$HOST$` with the name of the Office application that the add-in runs in. For example, `Outlook` or `Word`.
```

>

> > If debugging stops working; for example, if breakpoints are being ignored; stop debugging. Then, if necessary, close all host application windows and the Node window. Finally, close Visual Studio Code and reopen it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If debugging stops working---for example, if breakpoints are being ignored---stop debugging. Then, if necessary, close all host application windows and the Node window. Finally, close Visual Studio Code and reopen it.
```
Use em dash instead of semicolon here! The triple hyphen is supposed to render as em dash in GitHub flavored markdown. Alternatively, you could insert HTML here. Both **&mdash;**  and  **&#151;** render an em dash.

## Debug a project not created with Yo Office

If your project wasn't created with Yo Office, you need to create a debug configuration for Visual Studio Code.

### Configure package.json file

1. Ensure you have a `package.json` file. If you don't already have a package.json file, run `npm init` in the root folder of your project and answer the prompts.

> 1. Run `npm install office-addin-debugging`. This package will sideload your add-in for debugging.

Reviewer 2: Nit. Personal preference to avoid future tense in step-by-step instructions.
```suggestion
1. Run `npm install office-addin-debugging`. This package sideloads your add-in for debugging.
```

> 1. Open the package.json file. In the `scripts` section add the following script.

Reviewer 2: Consistency with the earlier code ticks around the file name.
```suggestion
1. Open the `package.json` file. In the `scripts` section, add the following script.
```

   ```json
   "start:desktop": "office-addin-debugging start $MANIFEST_FILE$ desktop",
   "dev-server": "$SERVER_START$"
   ```

> 1. Replace `$MANIFEST_FILE$` with the correct file name and folder location of your manifest.xml file.

Reviewer 2: Since the previous parts of the instruction allude to this file name being flexible, consider not using the standard file name here.
```suggestion
1. Replace `$MANIFEST_FILE$` with the correct file name and folder location of your manifest.
```

> 1. Replace `$SERVER_START$` with the command to start your web server. Later in these steps, the office-addin-debugging package will specifically look for the `dev-server` script to launch your web server.

Reviewer 2: Consistent code ticks about package names.
```suggestion
1. Replace `$SERVER_START$` with the command to start your web server. Later in these steps, the `office-addin-debugging` package will specifically look for the `dev-server` script to launch your web server.
```

1. Save and close the `package.json` file.

### Configure launch.json file

1. Create a file named `launch.json` in the `\.vscode` folder of the project if there isn't one there already.
1. Copy the following JSON into the file.

   ```json
   {
     // Other properties may be here.
     "configurations": [
       {
         "name": "$HOST$ Desktop (Edge Chromium)",
         "type": "msedge",
         "request": "attach",
         "useWebView": true,
         "port": 9229,
         "timeout": 600000,
         "webRoot": "${workspaceRoot}",
         "preLaunchTask": "Debug: Excel Desktop"
       }
     ]
     // Other properties may be here.
   }
   ```

   > [!NOTE]

>    > If you already have a launch.json file, just add the single configuration to the `configurations` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > If you already have a `launch.json` file, just add the single configuration to the `configurations` section.
```

> 1. Replace the placeholder `$HOST$` with the name of the Office application that the add-in runs in; for example, `Outlook` or `Word`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the placeholder `$HOST$` with the name of the Office application that the add-in runs in. For example, `Outlook` or `Word`.
```
Semicolon = conjunction. For example, and, but, or or.

1. Save and close the file.

### Configure tasks.json

1. Create a file named `tasks.json` in the `\.vscode` folder of the project.

> 1. Copy the following JSON into the file. It contains a task that will start debugging for your add-in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Copy the following JSON into the file. It contains a task that starts debugging for your add-in.
```

   ```json
   {
     "version": "2.0.0",
     "tasks": [
       {
         "label": "Debug: $HOST$ Desktop",
         "type": "shell",
         "command": "npm",
         "args": ["run", "start:desktop", "--", "--app", "$HOST$"],
         "presentation": {
           "clear": true,
           "panel": "dedicated"
         },
         "problemMatcher": []
       }
     ]
   }
   ```

   > [!NOTE]

>    > If you already have a tasks.json file, just add the single task to the `tasks` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   > If you already have a `tasks.json` file, just add the single task to the `tasks` section.
```

> 1. Replace both instances of the placeholder `$HOST$` with the name of the Office application that the add-in runs in; for example, `Outlook` or `Word`.

Reviewer 2: That semicolon pattern Linda called out is here too. Make sure whatever changes you make are propagated.
